---
layout: post
date: 2023-05-11
title: Obsessed with Obsidian
giscus_comments: true
related_posts: false
tags: productivity obsidian plugins
---
## Overview 

Obsidian is a note organizer. I have been using the very basic features for a few months but only recently delved deeper. It's been game changing. 
In this post I will lay out a quick list of the resources I used to learn. 

For someone who likes to keep notes *and* revisit them, Obsidian can be extremely pleasing to use. Having a blog is a good alternative but Obsidian differs in a couple of fundamental reasons: 
 - it's easy to use and aesthetically pleasing
 - it allows for seamless linking between notes
 - it's as simple or as complex as the user desires

I think the best way to describe it is a *personal notebook interface*. 

I started using Obsidian to keep random tabs on ideas. Then I started linking them leaving placeholders for anything I meant to follow up on. I started treating it as a digital addendum to my physical notebook, creating notes for anything digital I wanted to keep for future reference. Soon enough I had a list of notes containing coding snippets, articles, quotes, video links, recipes, and instructions. Then I started using it as a todo list as well. But more recently I discovered how to use it a productivity booster in everything else I do. Here are some use cases: 

#### Write blog posts
Be able to create a blog post using a template. Use the **templater plugin**.


#### Meeting Notes
Create notes for meetings and be able to search them later. 
This could be achieved by logging notes with **tags**, or by using **metadata**.
If  use tags make sure to use **tag-wrangler plugin**
Can also sync it up to a calendar plugin to keep all notes organized and connected to a calendar.

Later on I can create a note that retrieves information from the meetings with the **datataview plugin**. 

#### Special Events 
Connect notes to a special physical event so you can find later
This could be notes from a special event like a workshop or a hackathon. Can use a special tag for this. 


#### Learning 
Organize notes as I learn something new. Connect and refactor as I go along.
 - Note new things that are interesting 
 - come back to connect them to existing notes

Organizing them in a concise manner would be a learning goal, but also could be shared on the web using **Obsidian Publish** if one wishes to "learn in public".

#### Keep notes from interesting meetings

Keep notes from meeting and connect them to profiles and other notes. See this [video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5j9fAvJCaig) for a great example of how to organize meetings and profiles using **templater plugin** and **datataview plugin**.


## Resources
[Nicole van der Hoeven](https://nicolevanderhoeven.com/) has a ton of excellent resources on Obsidian, such as this [video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5j9fAvJCaig)

[Linkingyourthinking](https://www.youtube.com/@linkingyourthinking) is a great youtube channel with a lot of good info as well. 